add postgres privatelink page (#4155)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/secure/postgres-privatelink.md

---
title: "Configure AWS PrivateLink for Postgres"
id: postgres-privatelink
description: "Configuring PrivateLink for Postgres"
sidebar_label: "PrivateLink for Postgres"
---

> A Postgres database, hosted either in AWS or in a properly connected on-prem data center, can be accessed via a private network connection using AWS Interface-type PrivateLink. The type of Target Group connected to the Network Load Balancer (NLB) may vary based on the location and type of Postgres instance being connected, as is noted in the steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Postgres database, hosted either in AWS or in a properly connected on-prem data center, can be accessed through a private network connection using AWS Interface-type PrivateLink. The type of Target Group connected to the Network Load Balancer (NLB) may vary based on the location and type of Postgres instance being connected, as explained in the following steps.
```

> ## Configuring Postgres Interface-type PrivateLink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Postgres interface-type PrivateLink
```

> ### 1. Provision AWS Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Provision AWS resources
```

            - Use the IP address of the on-prem Postgres server linked to AWS through AWS Direct Connect or a Site-to-Site VPN connection

        - _Postgres on EC2_ - **Instance/ASG** (or **IP**)

            - If your Postgres instance is hosted on EC2 the _instance_ Target Group type (or ideally [using the instance type to connect to an auto-scaling group](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/attach-load-balancer-asg.html)) can be used to attach the instance without needing a static IP address

            - The IP type can also be used, with the understanding that the IP of the EC2 instance can change if the instance is relaunched for any reason

    - Target Group protocol: **TCP** 

- **Network Load Balancer (NLB)** &mdash; Requires creating a Listener that attaches to the newly created Target Group for port `5432`
- **VPC Endpoint Service** &mdash; Attach to the newly created NLB.
    - Acceptance required (optional) &mdash; Requires you to [accept our connection request](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/privatelink/configure-endpoint-service.html#accept-reject-connection-requests) after dbt creates the endpoint.

> ### 2. Grant dbt AWS Account access to the VPC Endpoint Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. Grant dbt AWS account access to the VPC Endpoint Service
```

On the provisioned VPC endpoint service, click the **Allow principals** tab. Click **Allow principals** to grant access. Enter the ARN of the root user in the appropriate production AWS account and save your changes.

 - Principal: `arn:aws:iam::346425330055:role/MTPL_Admin` (_or_ `arn:aws:iam::346425330055:root`)

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink5.png" title="Enter ARN"/>

Reviewer: making image bigger
```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink5.png" width="70%" title="Enter ARN"/>
```

### 3. Obtain VPC Endpoint Service Name

Once the VPC Endpoint Service is provisioned, you can find the service name in the AWS console by navigating to **VPC** → **Endpoint Services** and selecting the appropriate endpoint service. You can copy the service name field value and include it in your communication to dbt Cloud support.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink6.png" title="Get service name field value"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/redshiftprivatelink6.png" width="70%" title="Get service name field value"/>
```
